ABR 1000 Example
=================

The ABR1000 example demonstrates the cost estimation process for Advanced Burner Reactor, which is a 1,000 MWth, 380 MWe pooled-type, sodium cooled fast reactor, based on a traditional steam Rankine cycle (`Grandy 2007 <https://www.osti.gov/biblio/1349893>`_)

General Input Structure
------------------------

The example input is located at ``ACCERT/tutorial/ABR1000.son``.

Reactor Model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: console

   accert{
       ref_model = "ABR1000"
       ...
   }

- **accert{}**: Denotes the start of the ACCERT input configuration.
- **ref_model**: Specifies the reference model as "ABR1000".

Power Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These parameters are essential for scaling cost estimates based on the reactor's power output. The power output can be electrical or thermal, depending on the specific reactor design.

.. code-block:: console

   power( Thermal ){ value = 1000   unit = MW } 


Variables
~~~~~~~~~~

The ABR1000 example includes the following variables:

- **Cont_H_wall_m**: Containment wall height (m).
- **c_pump_ap1000**: Cost of the pump for the AP1000 reactor (million USD).

.. code-block:: console

   var(Cont_H_wall_m){ value = 20  unit = m }
   %var(c_pump_ap1000){ value = 30  unit = million }


Uncomment the `%var(c_pump_ap1000)` line to include the cost of the pump for the AP1000 reactor in the cost estimation process.

Running the Example
-------------------

Please follow the :doc:`Installation Guide <../user/install>` before running the ABR1000 example.


Using command line
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To run the ABR1000 example with Python, execute the following command:

.. code-block:: console

    > cd ACCERT/tutorial
    > python ../src/Main.pi -i ABR1000.son

The output will be saved in the ``tutorial`` directory as ``output.out``, ``abr1000_variable_affected_cost_elements.xlsx``, ``abr1000_updated_cost_element.xlsx``, and ``abr1000_updated_account.xlsx``. The ``output.out`` file contains the cost estimation results, while the Excel files provide detailed information on the cost elements and accounts affected by the input variables.


Using NEAMS Workbench
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To run the ABR1000 example using the NEAMS Workbench, follow these steps:

1. Open the NEAMS Workbench.
2. Click on the **file** menu and select **open file**, then navigate to the ``ACCERT/tutorial`` directory and select the ``ABR1000.son`` file.
3. In the main window, select App as `Accert`, then click on the **Run** button to execute the simulation.
4. Click on the **file** menu and select **open file**, then navigate to the ``ACCERT/tutorial`` directory and select the ``output.out`` file to view the cost estimation results.


